(upbeat music)
So I'm in maps.html here,
in the playground folder, and we're gonna learn
about this thing called a map.
It's very similar to an object,
however there are a couple of key differences.
So let's learn first, how does it work,
second, what does it do, third, why would you want
to use one over an object, or how do you decide
whether to use a map or an object?
So the way that you create a map
is you say const myMap is equal to new,
and then we create a capital M map.
Now in order to add items to a map, we have the set API,
we have the .has API, and we have the .delete API.
So let's go through all three of those real quick.
So firstly, you take your myMap,
and you set it, and you pass it two arguments,
so the first one is going to be what the key
of the map will be, so let's call it a name,
and then you set the value of it, so I'll say Wes.
Now that's probably not all that interesting,
so just console log myMap, refresh, you see
we have our map here, it gives us our entries,
entries are the actual values in the map.
Now if you were to use the object notation
that we are used to, something like age is equal to 100,
you'll see that it's actually not added in the same spot.
It is in here, but that is a property
on this map, and not an actual entry in our map.
And you see you open it up, we have our key,
which is name, and our value, which is Wes.
So why would that be useful?
Well, there's a couple nice things
about this API other than it's got this nice
set method, and we have a has method
and a delete method we'll go into in just a second,
but one sort of big benefit of a map
is that the keys can be any type
other than just, like we've talking about using
strings or a loud variable name.
So I could say, myMap.set, and the key could be any type.
So it could be a number, this is a number,
take a look at that, and you see
that the entry has a key of 100.
So whereas previously we've only had the ability
to put different types in the value portion of an object,
a map allows us to put any value
into the key, and into the value.
Now, why would that ever be useful?
Well, what sometimes happens in JavaScript
is we have these things called dictionaries.
And a dictionary is just a way to store
additional metadata about something else.
What is a dictionary, if you have a word,
you have that word, but that word doesn't include
the whole description of what it does,
and maybe how to pronounce it, and all that information
about that word is not stored in the word, it's stored
somewhere else, which is a dictionary, and if we wanna
look that information up, we use a dictionary.
So if I had a person, we'll say person1,
and on that we'll have a name of Wes,
and an age of 200, that's all the information
I wanna store about Wes in that object.
However, what you can do is you can use that reference
to that object as a key in your map
to store additional information inside of your map.
So I could go down here and say, myMap.set,
and now the key of that is going to be a reference
to an object, and then the value
could be really anything, like maybe we could store
a string of how cool the person was.
Now, when we take a look here, open up our map,
you'll see that the key is actually an object,
and the value is really cool.
Now why would that be useful?
Well, if at a later point in time,
you wanted to reference that, or you wanted
to look it up in your dictionary,
what we can do is we can say, myMap.get,
and we can just use the reference to person1.
If we want to console.log that,
you see that we see really cool.
So what we've done there, is instead of having
to put a unique string, or an ID, or something else,
we've simply just used the reference
of the object as the key in the map
to store some additional information.
Similarly, all of the values can be any type as well.
Could be an object, could be another number,
could be an array, could be a boolean,
I think you get the point in terms of
what you can store inside of it.
Maybe another example that we could have here
is if somebody has some scores
that they want to store additional information about it.
So we have a score variable, and the score
is equal to 100, and then on the map
we wanna set additional information
about what prize they win at that score.
So let's create a new map, so const prizes
is equal to new map, and we'll say prizes.set,
and then we're gonna say a score of 100 is going to get
a bear, a score of 200 is going to get a duck,
a score of 300 is going to get a cat.
A car, ah, that's even better, they get a car.
Now previously, if this was an object,
we would have had to use a string
of the number in order to look it up.
But in this case we can simply use
a number to look up what the corresponding prize is.
So we can just do something like this, console.log,
back ticks, you win a, we'll use our brackets here,
we'll say prizes.get, and we just pass the score in there.
Now when we run it, it says you win a bear,
we change that to 200, you get you win a duck.
So in a lot of the real world things
that we're gonna build, a lot of the exercise
that we're gonna build, whenever we create an object
we'll sort of stop and say, could we use a map
in this situation, or would it make sense
to keep going with an object.
Now, other things about maps, we talked about
being able to set, we talked about
being able to get, we talked about
being able to see the size of a map, so we say myMap.size,
very similar to the length of something.
The other thing about a map is that order is guaranteed.
Remember how I told you that with an object,
order is not guaranteed?
Well with a map, the order at which
you put things into your map is the order at which
they will always stay, so that's really important
if you ever want to maintain the order.
Even something very similar,
even something very simple like prizes.
Like if you wanted to display these prizes
on the page, let's go ahead and do it.
Let's go into our maps here, and let's give ourself
a ul with the class of prizes.
Now if I wanted to loop over those prizes
and display for 100 points you get a bear,
200 you get a duck, 300 for a car,
it's important that they sort of go in that order,
and with an object, they could be jumbled, right?
And that would be weird to display like 200, 100,
then 300, so it's nice and guaranteed.
So what we can do here is we can,
let's maybe select that ul, const ul
is equal to document.querySelector,
we'll grab the .prizes, and then we will loop over
all of the entries in our map.
Now there's a couple different ways
that we can do this, we're gonna go over that
in the looping and iterating, but for now
I can tell you we can use the for of
or the dot for each method on it.
Take our prizes, and we call forEach on it,
and in this case we're going to get an entry,
and let's just console.log the entry
to see what we get for each of them.
Refresh, you win, you get bear, duck, car,
but that just gives us the values,
so if we want both of them, what we can do
is we can use the for of loop, so we say for,
and open up your block, and we can say const prize
of prizes, and then here, we just console.log prize.
This is a little bit getting ahead of ourselves
for how to do looping, but just know what we're gonna do
is we're gonna loop over all of the entries
in our prizes map, and for each one
we're gonna create sort of a temporary variable
called prize, and we're going to log it.
And now what you see here is that we get this.
This is what is referred to as an array,
and that array will give us the first item
is going to be the key, and the second item
is going to be the value.
So we can console log the first item with a zero,
and the second item with a one.
And you see that that gives us individual one,
we can also go a little bit further
and take this array and use something
called destructuring, and what destructuring
will allow us to do is instead of referencing it
by it's index, we can create variables
of the items in that by their index.
So we can remove prize, and just replace it
with a key and a val, or a points and a prize,
and then we have two separate variables,
because the first item in that array
will be a points variable, and the second item
will be a prize, and I believe now
we can have a points and a prize.
And you see it works just exactly the same.
So now what we can do is we can make a list item,
so const li is equal to,
and we can put the points, dash prize,
and then we take our ul and we say insertAdjacentHTML,
and say before, no, afterbegin, I think is what we want.
I'll append the li in there, refresh, there we go,
oh, that's the opposite that we want.
So what was the other option?
Gotta look it up, I forgot it.
Here we go, the options are afterbegin,
beforeend, that's what we want.
There we go, 100 bear, 200 duck, 300 car.
We've looped over and added in there.
So, questions are now, when do you use
a map over an object and vice versa?
So first of all, you should use a map
if you do need to maintain the order of your items.
The other sort of downside to a map
is that there is no literal, meaning that
we have to create a new map this way
and then go ahead and set the items in it.
You can also pass items into your map
with an array of arrays, it's kinda weird, lemme show you.
We have a new map, lemme see, do I even have an example, no.
You pass an array of items, and then each item
will have another array, so, one, two,
and then another array here, three, four.
And you see what we've done here is
we've created a map, that's a bad example,
let's do something, say, name is Wes, and age is 49.
There we go, and so now we have a map.
So you can pass an array of multiple arrays
where the first item is the key
and the second item is the value,
however the object literal syntax
is a little bit nicer than that,
but then again, the set, the get, and the delete again,
or actually, I didn't show you delete.
If we wanted to delete something,
we just take the myMap.delete name.
And then we say myMap, you see
that has been removed from it.
The other thing about an object
is that you can put functions inside
of an object, and we call those methods,
you cannot do that with a map, that's not what maps are for,
they're simply for storing data.
And then finally, sort of the last thing here
is that we have this thing called JSON,
and I haven't really explained JSON to you yet,
but real quick is if you have an object,
like person, here we go, is equal to Wes,
and the age of 100, if I wanted to send that object
to somebody, what we actually do
is we turn it into text, because text
is easily sendable to other servers,
from one website to another website,
any time you wanna transfer an object
or an array, you have to first
convert that thing to a portable format.
And this one way that all programming languages understand
is called JSON, and we can do that with JSON.stringify,
and then you pass it your object,
and what it does is it actually converts your object
into a string, and then you can
send that string very easily.
You could even email that string to somebody,
and then the person on the other end
will say, okay, thanks for the string of JSON,
lemme turn it back into an object.
And they do something like the JSON.parse,
and they pass it a string.
What did I do, I have single quotes here.
And that will convert it back into an object.
So that's just a way that we make JavaScript objects,
it stands for JavaScript Object Notation,
however it has been implemented
by every single language out there,
so it is sort of the universal way to
move objects from one place, like the browser
to another, which is your server side,
and then you can turn it back into an object.
So JSON is amazing, however, if you have a map,
currently JSON does not handle maps.
So if we take a look at myMap,
you see we have this, but if we say JSON.stringify,
or JSON.stringify myMap, you'll see it just gives us
an empty object, 'cause it is not aware
of maps yet, I imagine that will change very soon.
There's this thing called JSON five,
which sort of tries to improve upon JSON,
but until then, if you have a map,
and you wanna send it to somebody,
you currently have to convert it to an object,
and the way that we would do that is
object.fromEntries, you pass it your myMap,
and what that does is it tries it's best
to convert it to a regular object.
However you'll see that if you use any of the benefits
of a map, like using an object as a key,
then it kinda falls apart.
So that's a bit of a bummer right there,
that may or may not be an issue to you,
but that's sort of the benefits and upsides.
We'll try to use a little bit of both of them,
I personally use objects much more frequently,
but I can see why this will probably start
to catch on in the next couple years.